Hello and Welcome
I’m Gina Shakespeare.
Today on Declassified the Clinton Foundation
‘Pay to Play’ Model is Under Investigation.
That’s right we have seven
documented examples
of when payments to the Clintons and their foundation
coincided with political favors
This story written
by Seamus Bruner,
Seamus is the associate director of research
at the Government Accountability Institute
and author of the new book
“Compromised: How Money and Politics
Drive FBI Corruption.”
Just before we get underway please
feel free to subscribe,
like and hit the notification button.
You can also join the conversation on
Twitter and Facebook,
details are in the description below.
Lets begin with some maths,
the Clinton Foundation has raised more than $2 billion
since its inception in 1997,
and Bill and Hillary Clinton have been paid more
than $150 million for delivering speeches.
Notably, these payments increased dramatically
after Hillary Clinton took office as secretary of state in 2009.
The tens of millions of dollars that flowed directly
to the Clintons or their foundation,
from foreign governments or
other entities (or “benefactors”)
who could benefit from Secretary
Clinton’s actions,
seem to pose inherent
conflicts of interest.
The foundation is currently being probed
by U.S. Attorney John Huber
who was assigned by then-Attorney General
Jeff Sessions—for alleged wrongdoing.
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told
The Hill on Nov. 20. That
“Mr. Huber with the Department of Justice
and FBI has been having an investigation,
at least part of his task was to look
at the Clinton Foundation
and what may or may
not have happened
as it relates to improper activity
with that charitable foundation,”
A scheduled testimony by Huber
before Congress was postponed
in response to the funeral of late
President George H.W. Bush.
The Clintons’ apparent conflicts
were concealed
and their potential culpability has been
mitigated by several factors:
the memorandum of understanding (MOU)
reached with Obama’s presidential transition team;
special government employee (SGE) waivers;
and the State Department’s
ethics review apparatus.
The MOU was an agreement between
the Clinton Foundation
and the Obama transition team that
outlined certain requirements
for Hillary Clinton’s confirmation as
secretary of state in 2009.
The MOU identified a set of protocols that supposedly
addressed concerns about possible foreign influence.
The foundation promised to observe
these protocols—including,
primarily, the increased and timely
disclosure of payments.
These essential requirements included the annual
publication of Clinton Foundation donors
and restrictions on donations
from foreign governments.
The MOU satisfied lawmakers
and the media,
and Clinton was near-unanimously
confirmed in January 2009.
However, the MOU was violated
almost immediately,
and would be so repeatedly (in spirit and in letter)
throughout Clinton’s tenure.
For example, from the beginning of
Clinton’s tenure in 2009,
the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) never
reported any of its foreign donors,
as acknowledged by CHAI spokeswoman
Maura Daley in 2015.
Other significant violations include the failure to
report donors annually,
the failure to disclose foreign-
government donations,
and the failure to submit donations and speech
payments for ethics reviews.
Absent the blanket immunity document,
every payment to the Clintons
from foreign entities
with interests that Secretary Clinton
could influence was, at best,
a potential conflict of interest and,
at worst, a bribe.
Next up Clinton State Department’s
‘Special’ Employees
In addition to the tens of millions in foreign funds
that flowed to the Clinton Foundation,
the Clintons received tens of millions
of dollars in the form of
Bill Clinton’s speaking fees and
consulting arrangements.
Instead of these payments being reviewed by neutral
or third-party ethics officials,
they were reviewed by the State
Department under Hillary Clinton
and the process specifically involved longtime
Clinton lawyer Cheryl Mills.
It is worth noting that Hillary Clinton’s
State Department
operated without an inspector general for
the entirety of her tenure
an unprecedented duration without
a watchdog in place.
Furthermore, Clinton granted SGE
waivers to her closest staffers
such as Mills, Huma Abedin,
Declan Kelly,
and approximately 100 others
that allowed these staffers to work for both the State
Department and other for-profit entities.
SGE status is essentially a conflict
of interest waiver.
Abedin was Hillary Clinton’s closest aide
at the State Department.
The controversial SGE waiver allowed her to
simultaneously work for Clinton,
the State Department,
the Clinton Foundation,
and consulting firm
Teneo Strategies.
For example, Teneo—a for-profit firm
co-founded by Doug Band
paid Abedin $355,000, while State paid
her $135,000 as an SGE.
Abedin frequently corresponded with
Clinton Foundation and Teneo executive Band
and helped grant favors to Clinton Foundation
donors and Teneo clients.
Next up Teneo & ‘Bill Clinton Inc.’
Clinton Foundation official Doug Band is
a longtime personal assistant
to Bill Clinton who helped capitalize and expand
the Clinton Foundation in 2001.
Emails first revealed by Judicial Watch show
that from the beginning of Hillary Clinton’s tenure,
Band frequently emailed Clinton State Department
aides requesting favors for Foundation donors.
Abedin would usually respond immediately to
indicate the favor request
had been received and
was under consideration.
Favors (described below) were granted
to foundation donors,
leading to widespread criticisms
of “pay to play.”
Band’s firm, Teneo,
was founded by Band and longtime Clinton friend
and fundraiser Kelly in November 2009.
Kelly raised funds for Hillary Clinton’s
campaigns since 2000
and raised more than $2 million for her
2008 presidential bid.
In September 2009, Hillary Clinton appointed Kelly to the State
Department as “special economic envoy.”
While at the State Department,
Kelly received an SGE waiver and continued to
advise his for-profit clients.
Teneo hired Bill Clinton in
2011 as an adviser
but “changed the relationship” after criticism that
it had the appearance of conflicts.
Teneo subsequently considered
Clinton “a client.”
A leaked 2011 internal memo drafted
by Band revealed Teneo had approximately 20 clients
many of whom are also
Clinton donors.
In his memo, Band described Teneo as
an agent for “Bill Clinton, Inc.”
that was dedicated to
“helping the President secure
and engage in for-profit activities—including speeches,
books,
and advisory service engagements.”
Furthermore, Band and Kelly
negotiated “in-kind services
for the President and his family—
for personal travel,
hospitality, vacation, and the like.”
Band admits in the memo
that Teneo clients
were encouraged to make donations
to the Clinton Foundation.
After Teneo clients became
foundation donors,
they were encouraged to make payments
to “Bill Clinton, Inc.”
The 2011 Band memo refutes
claims by the Clintons
that the Clinton Foundation provided
them no direct benefits.
Next up Laureate Hired Bill as Honorary Chancellor,
US AID Funds Increased
When Hillary Clinton
became secretary of state,
she “wrested control of USAID and influence
over billions in foreign assistance,”
according to a 2011 article
by the Daily Beast.
She appointed Rajiv Shah as
USAID administrator;
USAID then funded numerous multimillion-dollar
“partnerships” with Clinton benefactors.
The grants were made in close proximity
to payments to the Clinton Foundation.
One example is the timing of USAID grants to a
charity run by Bill Clinton’s friend Doug Becker.
Laureate also is listed as a $1 million to $5 million
donor to the Clinton Foundation.
In 2009, Bill Clinton began giving speeches at
Laureate campuses in Spain,Brazil, and Peru.
In August 2009, then-Secretary Clinton
told Mills to invite Becker
(“who Bill likes a lot”) to a State
Department dinner.
Hillary Clinton made Laureate part of her
State Department Global Partnership,
and her undersecretary praised Laureate
for “doing such important work.”
In April 2010, Laureate appointed Bill Clinton
as their “honorary chancellor”
and paid him over $16 million
over the next five years.
Also, in 2010, Laureate and the
IYF announced a joint
$10 million commitment to the
Clinton Foundation.
While Becker’s Laureate paid Bill Clinton more
than $16 million between 2010 and 2015,
USAID grants to Becker’s IYF increased from
$9 million in 2009 to over $25 million in 2012.
USAID granted $55 million from 2010
to 2012 to the IYF.
Bill Clinton abruptly resigned from
Laureate in April 2015
the same month his relationship with
Laureate was exposed in the book “Clinton Cash.”
USAID operates under “substantial guidance
from the Secretary of State,”
according to 64 lawmakers in a July 2016 letter
“which creates an appearance that millions of
dollars in taxpayer money
was channeled to IYF by Secretary Clinton’s
State Department
as a kickback for her husband’s generous contract
as an honorary Laureate chancellor.”
Next up Shangri-La Received Favors From State
Department After Hiring Bill
Billionaire Hollywood producer Steve Bing is a
longtime Clinton friend and donor.
Bing is listed as having donated $10 million to $25
million to the Clinton Foundation.
Between 2009 and 2010, Bing’s
construction company,
Shangri-La Industries LLC,
also personally paid Bill Clinton $2.5
million to be an adviser.
Not long after Bill Clinton’s for-profit consulting
arrangement was approved,
Bing requested his first favor.
On July 16, 2009, a
Shangri-La executive,
Zachary Schwartz, asked Band for help
with reversing the State
Department’s denial of a
travel visa to Cuba.
Band forwarded the request
to Abedin, writing,
“Please call zach asap on this… Important.”
Abedin responded,
“I’ll call zach when we land in India.
” Two weeks later, Bing’s
team was in Cuba,
despite the travel restrictions
for Americans.
Next up UBS Payments to Clinton Foundation
Increase Following Intervention
In 2007, Bradley Birkenfeld, a UBS Group
executive-turned-whistleblower,
revealed that UBS was encouraging
its North American division
to facilitate offshore transfers
to Switzerland.
UBS was soon investigated
by the FBI and IRS
for potentially facilitating massive
criminal tax evasion.
By 2009, the IRS wanted UBS
to turn over the
secret accounts of approximately
52,000 Americans.
In 2009, longtime Clinton fundraiser and
Teneo co-founder Kelly
introduced Bill Clinton to UBS
executive Bob McCann,
an Irishman and longtime
client of Kelly’s.
“Mr. Kelly subsequently asked Mr. McCann
to support the foundation …
[and] also encouraged Mr. McCann to invite
President Clinton to give several paid speeches,
which he has done,”
according to a leaked memo drafted by Clinton
Foundation official Band.
Shortly after Barack Obama’s
2009 inauguration,
Secretary Clinton flew to Geneva and met
with her Swiss counterpart,
Micheline Calmy-Rey,
to discuss the UBS crisis.
By July 2009, Clinton had fully intervened on UBS’s
behalf and negotiated a settlement with the IRS.
UBS only had to turn over the details of over
fourty-four hundred American account holders,
instead of the
requested 52,000.
After Clinton’s mysterious intervention,
UBS’s donations and sponsorships to the Clinton
Foundation increased substantially.
According to The Wall Street Journal,
“Total donations by UBS to the Clinton Foundation
grew from less than $60,000
through 2008 to a cumulative total of about $600,000
by the end of 2014,
according to the foundation and
the bank.” Furthermore,
UBS sponsored a series of speeches,
moderated by McCann,
which directly netted Bill Clinton
more than $1.5 million.
Next Clinton Benefactors Sought
Keystone XL Approval.
Canadian pipeline company TransCanada first
proposed the Keystone XL oil pipeline in 2008.
Keystone XL would be transporting petroleum
tar sands from Canada
to Texas for processing and thus required State
Department approval to move forward.
TransCanada’s then-largest
shareholder,
TD Bank, began sponsoring
speeches by Bill Clinton
just days after Obama appointed Hillary Clinton
as secretary of state,
paying over $500,000
for three speeches.
In July 2009, Gordon Giffin,
a lobbyist for Keystone XL,
sent an email to Band,
asking for an invite to an event at which
Hillary Clinton was speaking.
Giffin was Bill Clinton’s ambassador to
Canada from 1997 to 2001
and a major donor to Hillary
Clinton’s campaigns.
Band forwarded Giffin’s
request to Abedin,
and asked, “Can u get him in?”
Abedin replied,
“Yes will get him in.”
In 2010, Secretary Clinton said she was “inclined”
to approve the project,
despite the Obama administration’s
public opposition.
In August 2011, Bill Clinton said,
“We should embrace [Keystone XL].”
In August 2011,
Clinton’s State Department greenlighted the
Keystone XL environmental review
and stated the project will have “no significant
impacts” to most U.S. resources.
TransCanada lobbyist Giffin has donated
between $50,000 and $100,000 to the Clinton Foundation.
And TD Bank paid Bill Clinton more than $1.7 million
to deliver 10 speeches,
while the State Department considered
the Keystone XL approval.
Next up Clinton Donors Cashed In
on Haiti Earthquake
On Jan. 12, 2010, Haiti was rocked by a devastating
7-magnitude earthquake.
Internal emails sent just hours
after the quake,
and released under the Freedom
of Information Act,
reveal the State Department was
communicating with the Clinton Foundation
and prioritizing projects for
Clinton benefactors.
A top State Department aide to Hillary Clinton
fielded incoming offers for relief assistance,
asked the foundation for help
identifying the offerors,
and gave special priority to “FOBs”
(friends of Bill) and “WJC VIPs.
” Less than a month after the quake,
U.S. Ambassador Kenneth Merten
sent a cable to State Department
headquarters saying,
“The Gold Rush is on.”
In April 2010, the Clinton State Department established
the Interim Haiti Relief Commission (IHRC)
—a quasi-governmental entity that
coordinated relief efforts.
Bill Clinton and Haitian President Jean-Max
Bellerive were installed as co-commissioners.
The IHRC approved projects that would be
funded by either the State Department,
USAID, or the Haiti
Recovery Fund.
The IHRC was Haiti’s second
unmitigated disaster;
one year after the earthquake,
global NGO Oxfam reported that “almost no major
reconstruction projects [had] started.
” In an article, titled “The King and Queen of Haiti,”
Politico reported,
“Many of the most notable investments the
Clintons helped launch,
such as the new Marriott
in the capital,
have primarily benefited
wealthy foreigners."
The four-star luxury Marriott is owned by
Clinton mega-donor Denis O’Brien’s Digicel
and was one of the first recovery projects the
Clinton Foundation facilitated.
Hillary Clinton’s brother,
Tony Rodham,
was a board member
of VCS Mining,
which received a lucrative
gold mining lease
the first issued in
Haiti in 50 years.
One of the biggest winners in the aftermath of
the Haitian earthquake was Digicel,
one of the largest telecom companies
in the Caribbean.
Digicel is owned by Irish
billionaire O’Brien,
who is a close friend of Bill Clinton and
a major foundation donor.
After the Haiti earthquake,
O’Brien and the Clinton Foundation partnered
on rebuilding infrastructure
with substantial
taxpayer/relief funding.
USAID, in partnership with the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation,
provided more than $5 million in
taxpayer-funded grants to Digicel.
With the post-earthquake
USAID funds,
Digicel gave Haitians free cell phones and accounts
and massively expanded its user base.
Digicel then collected fees from the impoverished
Haitians for every transaction,
making millions of dollars
in fees alone.
O’Brien has donated between $5 million and $10 million
to the Clinton Foundation.
Between 2010 and 2012,  O’Brien arranged
several lucrative speeches
by Bill Clinton in Ireland,
as well as a $225,000 Digicel-sponsored
speech in Jamaica.
The timing of these speeches coincided with major
grant awards to Digicel from USAID.
As a 94-percent stakeholder
in Digicel,
O’Brien cashed in $650 million worth of
dividends in 2014 alone.
According to an analysis by the Center for
Economic Policy Research,
less than 1 percent of USAID funds ($1.3 billion) went
to local Haitian groups
and more than 60 percent went to organizations
operating inside the Washington Beltway.
Four years later, USAID funds were
still unaccounted for.
Not only did the Clinton State Department
and Clinton Foundation
bungle relief efforts as
Haitians suffered,
but Clinton friends and donors were
given sweetheart deals.
Next up New Details on
Uranium One Scandal
Uranium One was a Canadian
mining company
whose assets included mines
in Utah and Wyoming,
amounting to a projected 20 percent of domestic
uranium production capacity at the time.
The company was acquired in 2010
by Atomredmetzoloto (ARMZ),
a fully controlled subsidiary of Russian state-owned
nuclear conglomerate Rosatom.
The purchase of Uranium One required a
review by Obama’s Committee
on Foreign Investment
in the U.S. (CFIUS),
since there were significant national
security implications.
As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton was obligated to
review the sale.
As detailed in the book
“Clinton Cash,”
nine investors linked to Uranium One donated
approximately $145 million
to the Clinton Foundation in close
proximity to the CFIUS review.
These investors included one of the
Clintons’ largest benefactors,
billionaire Canadian mining mogul
Frank Giustra,
as well as the then-chairman of
Uranium One, Ian Telfer.
Additionally, in June 2010, Bill Clinton was
paid $500,000 by Renaissance Capital
a Kremlin-backed bank that had been promoting
Uranium One investment.
Bill Clinton’s office also requested
permission for him
to meet with one of Rosatom’s board members,
Arkady Dvorkovich.
The speech was reviewed by the
Clinton State Department
and approved within two
days of the request.
Dvorkovich attended Clinton’s
Moscow speech,
and after the speech, Clinton
visited Vladimir Putin,
who thanked him for speaking.
Ted Kassinger is an attorney
and resident CFIUS expert
at the international law firm
O’Melveny & Myers.
While Kassinger advised Clinton’s State
Department from 2010 to 2013,
records indicate he was also advising the
Russians on the takeover of Uranium One.
Kassinger was specifically identified as
the lead “U.S. Counsel”
advising ARMZ in an announcement
about the successful takeover.
Kassinger also repeatedly met with Hillary
Clinton’s undersecretary Jose Fernandez in 2010.
Kassinger and Fernandez even met directly
with Clinton in April 2010,
just two months before ARMZ announced its intention
to take a controlling stake in Uranium One.
In 2015, internal emails
sent by John Podesta
who would later become the chairman
of Clinton’s presidential campaign
just days before the release of the
book “Clinton Cash,”
suggest Fernandez was made the
fall guy for the CFIUS approval.
On March 29, 2015, Fernandez
emailed Podesta: “Hi John,
I trust you are getting a brief rest
after a job well done.
Thanks no doubt to your recommendation
I have joined the CAP [Center for American Progress]
board of trustees,
which I’m finding extremely
rewarding[emphasis added].”
Less than three weeks later,
on April 17, Fernandez
emailed Podesta again
and expressed willingness “to do all I can to
support Secretary Clinton”
as The New York Times prepared to release
their front-page expose
and reached out to Clinton campaign
spokesman Brian Fallon.
In Fallon’s rebuttal to The New York
Times’ questions
surrounding Clinton’s involvement in the
sale of Uranium One,
he quoted Fernandez. “As you are
aware,” Fallon stated,
“Mr. Fernandez has personally
attested that
‘Secretary Clinton never intervened with [him]
on any CFIUS matter.’”
The implication was clear: Fernandez was taking
the blame for the Uranium One CFIUS decision.
The timing is damning and
suggests a quid pro quo:
Fernandez took the fall for
Uranium One
and he received a “very rewarding” board
position thanks to Podesta’s recommendation.
Besides the State Department,
two other notable figures gave
their approval to CFIUS
for the Uranium One deal: FBI
Director Robert Mueller,
and Attorney General Eric Holder.
While Mueller and Holder didn’t apparently
receive millions of dollars
from Uranium One investors,
they didn’t act to block the
Russian nuclear takeover,
despite concerning
evidence in their hands.
At the time of the Uranium
One sale in 2010,
the FBI was intimately aware of a
Russian espionage scheme
and a separate Russian racketeering and bribery
scheme targeting the U.S. nuclear industry.
The Hill reported in
October 2017 that
“The FBI had gathered
substantial evidence
that Russian nuclear industry officials
were engaged in bribery,
kickbacks, extortion and
money laundering
designed to grow Vladimir Putin’s atomic energy
business inside the United States,”
Next up Increase in Weapons Sales
to Foundation Donors
The State Department is responsible for approving
commercial arms sales to foreign countries,
and the secretary of state determines
which countries get approved.
Hillary Clinton’s State Department approved
commercial weapons sales
totaling $165 billion to 20 countries that donated
to the Clinton Foundation,
according to an analysis by
International Business Times.
Under Hillary Clinton’s direction,
the State Department increased
weapons sales 143 percent
to 16 Clinton Foundation foreign donors—
$151 billion in total sales,
compared with just over $105 billion for the
same time period under the Bush administration.
Five countries with notorious
human-rights abuses
donated large sums to the
Clinton Foundation
and saw more than 97 percent increases in their State
Department-approved weapons deals.
Next up we go to Qatar
In a 2009 cable, Clinton
acknowledged,
“Qatar’s overall level of [counter
terrorism] cooperation
with the U.S. is considered the
worst in the region.”
In 2010, the Clinton State Department criticized Qatar
for its human-rights abuses.
According to leaked emails from 2014,
Hillary Clinton acknowledged
that Qatar and Saudi Arabia
were “providing clandestine
financial and logistic support”
to the ISIS terrorist group and
other radical groups.
Nonetheless, during Secretary
Clinton’s tenure,
the State Department approved $4.3 billion in
arms purchase agreements for Qatar
a 14-fold increase from her predecessor.
Qatar has donated between $1 million
and $5 million to the Clinton Foundation,
including a controversial $1 million
“birthday gift” for Bill Clinton
in 2012 while Hillary Clinton was
secretary of state.
Despite that the foundation was required
to disclose large donations from foreign governments,
the Clinton Foundation confirmed in 2015
that the $1 million payment wasn’t reviewed by ethics officials.
Next up the United Arab Emirates
According to a 2009
diplomatic cable,
Secretary Clinton knew that entities within the
United Arab Emirates supported terrorism.
“UAE-based donors have provided financial
support to a variety of terrorist groups,
including al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and Hamas,”
Clinton stated.
In 2010,  Human Rights Watch reported that the
UAE committed atrocious human-rights abuses,
including “torture,restrictions
on freedoms of expression
and association, and violations
of women’s rights.”
According to Human
Rights Watch,
the situation worsened each
year from 2009 to 2012.
Nonetheless, the UAE received a 10-fold
increase—one of the largest
in Clinton-approved weapons sales.
Sales to the UAE totaled nearly $25 billion
during Clinton’s tenure,
compared with $2.2 billion during the comparable
period under Clinton’s predecessor.
The UAE is a major Clinton
Foundation donor.
Next up, Saudi Arabia
The Saudis have a long history
with the Clintons
and have donated between $10 million and $25 million
to the Clinton Foundation, cumulatively.
Additionally, a group called
Friends of Saudi Arabia
has donated between $1
million and $5 million.
In 2009, Secretary Clinton
lamented the
“ongoing challenge to persuade Saudi officials to
treat terrorist financing
emanating from Saudi Arabia as
a strategic priority,”
according to a leaked
diplomatic cable.
Nonetheless, the Saudis received State
Department approval in 2011
for a $29 billion deal to acquire Boeing fighter jets
that was a “top priority” for Secretary Clinton personally,
according to her aide
Andrew Shapiro.
According to leaked internal
department emails,
she and her staff reportedly
worked behind the scenes
to get the Saudi “Christmas present”
from Boeing approved.
Next up, Algeria
In 2015, the Clinton Foundation revealed
$26 million in undisclosed donations.
Among those payments
was one of $500,000 from the government
of Algeria.
This was an egregious violation
of the MOU,
especially considering Hillary
Clinton’s State Department
approved massive increases in
weapons sales to that country.
The Clinton Foundation admitted
the Algeria payment
violated ethics rules and downplayed
it as “an oversight.”
Next up, Bahrain
The Crown Prince of Bahrain committed $32
million to the Clinton Global Initiative in 2005,
and the country is listed as a $50,000
to $100,000 donor.
Clinton Foundation official
Doug Band emailed
State Department official Huma
Abedin in June 2009,
seeking to set up a meeting for “our good friend”
the Crown Prince of Bahrain.
Abedin responded that Crown Prince Salman
bin Hamad al Khalifa
had sought a meeting with Secretary Clinton
the previous week “thru normal channels,”
and that Clinton “doesn’t want to commit to
anything for Thurs or Fri until she knows how she will feel.”
It is unclear why the Crown Prince chose
to reach out to the State
Department through the Clinton
Foundation backchannel.
However, the email is a clear
indication that the foundation
served as a backchannel for donor access to
the Clinton State Department.
Next up Boeing, Lockheed, and
Clinton Speeches
Bill Clinton was reportedly paid
over $600,000 for speeches
sponsored by entities that benefitted
from arms-purchase approvals
by Secretary Clinton’s
State Department.
The speeches included a $175,000 keynote address paid
for by the Kuwait-America Foundation,
hosted at the Kuwaiti ambassador’s house
and sponsored in part by Boeing.
Kuwait has donated between $5 million
and $10 million to the Clinton Foundation
and received increased weapons sales
during Secretary Clinton’s tenure.
In April 2009, Lockheed Martin
donated $1 million
to the U.S. Institute of Peace to sponsor
their Dean Acheson lecture.
Months later, Secretary Clinton was
selected as the first speaker,
sponsored by Lockheed’s contribution.
The Chamber of Commerce in Egypt paid Bill Clinton
$250,000 to deliver a speech in Cairo in 2010,
which has reportedly been
linked to Lockheed.
The company received two
major weapons approvals
from the State Department
just days before the Cairo speech.
Lockheed became a Clinton
Foundation donor in 2010,
and during that year, the State Department
approved 17 arms deals for Lockheed.
In 2011, the firm was a primary
contractor on a $650 million
State Department-approved
award to Qatar.
Like Boeing, Lockheed hasn’t donated
to the Clinton Foundation
since Clinton lost the 2016
presidential election.
In May 2010, the Russians got a $3.7 billion
arms deal with Boeing,
approved by the State Department.
“This is a shameless pitch for Rosavia …
to buy Boeing aircraft,” Hillary Clinton said,
while touring a Boeing
factory in Moscow.
In August 2010, Boeing donated
$900,000 to Haiti relief efforts
through the Clinton Foundation.
Two months later, the
Clinton State Department
approved a $29 billion sale of fighter
jets to Saudi Arabia.
Boeing has donated between $1 million
and $5 million to the Clinton Foundation,
and has sponsored at least two speeches that
enriched the Clintons directly.
And finally today a
Drop in Donations
The pattern of payments to the Clintons reveals
how intertwined money and power are.
When the Clintons had the
power to grant political favors,
their income and
donations skyrocketed.
Bill Clinton’s speaking fees tripled during
Hillary Clinton’s tenure at the State Department.
Almost immediately after Hillary
Clinton lost the 2016 election,
donations by foreign governments
sharply dropped.
According to the Clinton Foundation’s
2014 IRS filing,
total contributions amounted
to $217 million.
The foundation’s 2017 filing revealed contributions
amounting to just $22 million.
This means support for the Clintons’ global
charitable enterprise fell by nearly 90 percent.
I do trust you’ve enjoyed this episode
and learning about the critical details related
to the Clinton Foundations ‘Pay to Play’ Model,
that is now under investigation.
From all of us at Declassified,
thank you for watching.
And don’t forget before you go to subscribe,
like and hit the notifications button.
From all of us here, take care